Summary
These experiments contain simultaneous recordings of intracellular calcium levels and action potentials of individual neurons in the visual cortex during visual stimulations of drifting gratings. 

Experimental procedure 
All surgical and experimental procedures were approved by Janelia Research Campus Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee and Institutional Biosafety Committee in accordance with National Institute of Health guidelines for ethical treatment of animals.  

Window surgery 
Transgenic mouse lines, GP4.3 and GP5.17, were used to study spike-calcium relationship of calcium indicators, GCaMP6s and GCaMP6f respectively. 3-5 week-old male mice were anesthetized using isoflurane (3% for induction, 1-2% during surgery). A circular craniotomy (3 mm of diameter) was made on the primary visual cortex (2.7 mm lateral, and 0.2 mm anterior to lambda). The craniotomy was first covered with agarose (1.5%), and a half circular glass coverslip (hand-cut from round glass coverslips, Warner Instruments, 3.5 mm, #1 thickness) was put on top of the agarose before it hardened. Coverslips were cemented to the skull to reduce motion artifact. A small, wet GELFOAM (Pfizer) was placed on the agarose to prevent it from drying. A custom titanium head post was fixed to the skull using black dental cement (Contemporary Ortho-jet). After dental cement hardened completely, simultaneous imaging and patching experiments were started. During recording, animals were kept warm on a homeothermic blanket system (Harvard Apparatus) and kept calm and light anesthesia using chlorphorthixene (20-40 ul at 0.33 mg/ml, i.m.) and 0.5% isoflurane.  

Visual stimuli 
Drifting grating visual stimuli were generated using the Psychophysics Toolbox in MATLAB (Mathworks). A set of optimal stimulation parameters that controlled direction, contrast, spatial and temporal frequencies of the drifting grating was probed and applied to the simultaneous imaging and electrophysiological recordings. Each stimulus trial consisted of a 2s blank period (uniform gray at mean luminance) followed by a 4s drifting sinusoidal grating. Each recording session consisted of 40 trials of repeated stimulation. Visual stimuli were presented using a small LCD monitor (12 x 16 cm) with a black cone attached to it to prevent leakage of the stimulus light to the detection channel. The tip of the cone was placed in front of the right eye. To further block light leaking through the gap between the tip of the cone and the eye, the gap was covered by a black cloth glued to the head post.  

Electrophysiology 
Layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in the primary visual cortex were targeted in this study. In vivo loose-seal cell-attached recordings were performed using glass pipettes (5-10 MΩ) filled with solution containing the following (in mM): 125 NaCl, 5 KCl, 10 glucose, 10 HEPES, 2 CaCl2, 2 MgSO4, and 0.1 Alexa Fluor594; pH 7.4. Signals were amplified by an AxoPatch 200B (Molecular Devices), filtered at 5 kHz and digitized at 10 kHz. Electrical signal was recorded in current clamp mode. The frame trigger pulses of ScanImage were also recorded and used offline to synchronize individual frames to electrophysiological recordings. After recordings were established, drifting gratings were presented to the mouse eye. Four stimulus parameters (drifting directions, contrast, spatial and temporal frequencies of the drifting grating) were varied in order to select out maximal responses. Once optimal stimulus parameter sets were identified, these sets of parameters were used in the simultaneous imaging and electrophysiological recording sessions.  

In vivo imaging of mouse V1 
Imaging was performed using a custom-built two-photon microscope with a resonant galvo scanning module (Thorlabs) that was controlled by ScanImage4 or 5 (Vidrio Technologies). Details of microscope designs were available at http://research.janelia.org/Svoboda. GCaMP indicators were excited by Mai Tai femtosecond pulsed laser (Spectra-Physics) tuned at 920 nm. Laser power was tuned to 40-60 mW for low zoom images (zoom of 6) and 25-35 mW for high zoom images (zoom of 46). Images were acquired using 16X water immersion lens (Nikon, 0.8 NA, 3 mm working distance) at 55 Hz (256 x 256 pixels; 283.6 um x 283.6 um for low zoom images and 37.5 um x 37.5 um for high zoom images).  



